---
date: 2022-12-06T09:29:16+10:00
title: ' M²LInES at AGU 22'
heroHeading: ''
heroSubHeading: 'M²LInES at AGU 22'
heroBackground: ''
thumbnail:  'images/news/2212-WillGregory.png'
images: ['images/news/2212-WillGregory.png']
link: 'https://mailchi.mp/169d6f0c61f9/m2lines-december-newsletter-agu-special' 
---

### AGU M²LInES Highlights
The M²LInES team is excited to present our recent scientific advances at the Fall 2022 AGU meeting in Chicago and online. Below is a summary of the talks (all times are CST). For your convenience, you can download the schedule for the talks by following this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16zgh5TfVuZfuz7CVSh_MuiUmKM0jXPvU/view).

#### Machine learning for physics discovery & modeling

We have an extensive lineup of talks and posters from M²LInES team members and affiliates. These presentations focus on the core topics of M²LInES: leverage data and machine learning to improve climate models and projections. This ranges from discovering physics from data to quantifying uncertainty in climate predictions.

**Monday, Dec 12 (3.25 pm - 6 pm): Pierre Gentine** will present atmospheric physics examples on how Machine Learning can help discover new physics in an invited talk (Session NG15A). **Abigail Bodner** will kick off the NG-16A session (4.45 pm), co-organized by VESRI members, with an invited talk on alternate approaches for ocean submesoscale parameterization with neural networks. She will be followed by **Mohamed Aziz Bhouri**, discussing a Bayesian Machine Learning Method for Parameter Inference and Model Closure of Dynamical Systems (Abstract). In the same session, **Cheng Zhang** will present his recent work on implementing a convolutional neural network parametrization into the MOM6 Ocean Model (Abstract).

**Tuesday, Dec 13 (9 am - 12.30 pm): Aakash Sane** will present his poster in session NG22B on parametrizing vertical Turbulent Mixing Coefficients in the ocean surface boundary layer with machine learning and recent implementation in a global ocean model.

**Wednesday, Dec 14 (2.45 - 5 pm)**: In the afternoon, **Laure Zanna** will kick off the session OS35A (2.45 pm) with an invited talk, presenting the work of **Andrew Ross**, which provides a framework for systematically benchmarking the online performance of coarse resolution models and introduce a new algorithm for discovery equations from data. In this invited talk in H36C (5.05 pm), **Pierre Gentine** presents a novel framework for terrestrial carbon and the water cycle that uses the power of automatic differentiation (autodiff) in a carbon-water model coded in Julia (Abstract).

**Wednesday, Dec 14 (5- 6 pm)**: Several talks on Wednesday afternoon will embrace stochastic approaches for parameterizations of atmospheric and oceanic processes. **Sara Shamekh** will be speaking about her recent work on how including information related to the distribution of clouds using a Neural Network significantly improves the prediction of precipitation (Abstract). She will be immediately followed by **Pavel Perezhogin** presenting his work parametrizing ocean mesoscale eddies in an idealized ocean model with generative models. Finally, an invited talk by **Arthur Guillaumin** in the same session will discuss Deep Learning approaches for non-Gaussian stochastic parameterizations of ocean momentum forcing.

**Thursday, Dec 15: Pierre Gentine (11.25 am)** will introduce a novel neural network architecture that combines two auto-encoders to parameterize the vertical turbulent flux of different scalars and decompose it into the main variability modes (Abstract).


#### Machine learning & data assimilation

Machine learning methods can be leveraged to design data assimilation products and learn what is missing from underlying models used for data assimilation.

**Tuesday, Dec 13**: in H22D, **Feiyu Lu (09.50 am)** will introduce his work on improving data assimilation ensembles using a U-Net Kalman Filter to predict ensemble covariance matrices.

**Friday, Dec 16 (9 am - 12.30 pm): Will Gregory** will present his poster (C52C) on using deep Learning to predict systematic model error from sea ice Data Assimilation Increments in a fully coupled climate model.


#### Ocean and Sea-Ice Dynamics

Tune in to hear about sea-ice predictions, quantifying and predicting sea level extremes, and ocean eddy fluxes in models and observations to understand multiscale interaction in the ocean and climate system.

**Monday, Dec 12**: At **11:32 am, Fabrizio Falasca** will present his work, in session PP13A, on quantifying climate change in the Indo-Pacific Basin From mid-to late Holocene.

**Tuesday, Dec 13 (9 am - 12.30 pm): Dhruv Balwada**’s poster, in session NG22B, focuses on a practical and unambiguous way to diagnose eddy fluxes in a 3D turbulent simulation.

**Wednesday, Dec 14 (9 am - 12.30 pm): Andrew Brettin** will present his poster on constraining estimates for South American sea level extremes using uncertainty-permitting Machine Learning (OS32C).

**Thursday, Dec 15: At 1.50 pm, Elizabeth Yankovsky** will start session OS44B by presenting some of her work with the Climate Process Team on exploring Mesoscale Eddy Vertical Structure Regimes (Poster presentation).

**Friday, Dec 16**: In GC52B, **Mitch Bushuk (09:13 am)** compares different models that predict September sea ice extent for both pan-Arctic and regional prediction (Abstract).

**Friday, Dec 16 (2.45-6.45 pm): Fabrizio Falasca** will discuss his work onexploring changes in coastal sea level distributions in observations and climate models at the PP55D poster session (Abstract).

